**Note**: This project is still in development, so many of the features described don't work yet.

# MusicSync
Sync your online music/video libraries with your local files.

# Features
- Works with any [yt-dlp](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp)-supported URLs
- Organize your URLs in folders and collections
- Many options for each collection: file name and format, 
- Fully customizable metadata suggestions with regex, filter and replace functionality
- CLI for automatic synchronization
- Plugins for advanced metadata and file operations

# Installation
```shell
git clone https://github.com/robin-mu/MusicSync.git
cd MusicSync
pip install yt-dlp pandas
```

## Required dependencies
- yt-dlp
- pandas

## Optional dependencies
- ffmpeg binaries (CLI program, not the python package)
- pyside6
- mutagen
- syncedlyrics

# Usage


# Terminology
- **Collection**: A group of URLs which are processed using the same settings.
- **URL**/**Collection URL**: Any URL supported by yt-dlp. A URL can contain one Track (i.e. it points to a single video) or multiple Tracks (i.e. it points to a playlist).
- **Track**: One single video/audio found _online_. A track always has a Collection URL as its parent. It also has a **Track URL** which can be different from its parent Collection URL (in the case of a playlist) or be the same (in the case of a single video/audio). 
- **File**: A video/audio file on _local_ storage. Note that a Track and a File can refer to the same song, but the Track refers to the remote version and the File to the local version of that song.

**Notes**:
- In the context of downloading files with yt-dlp, Tracks are often called **videos**, regardless of whether they are video or audio.
- In yt-dlp, every URL has a type. Possible types are documented [here](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/blob/b8058cdf378cbbf60669b665dea146fb7dc90117/yt_dlp/extractor/common.py#L118-L120) and [here](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/blob/b8058cdf378cbbf60669b665dea146fb7dc90117/yt_dlp/extractor/common.py#L495-L529), but from an outside perspective, only the types "video" and "playlist" are important. **Video-type URLs** have exactly one Track, and the Collection URL and Track URL for this type are identical. **Playlist-type URLs** have multiple Tracks, and a Playlist URL that is different from all Track URLs.

# Library
A Library contains your collections organized in a folder structure. It also contains a metadata table, where (almost) all downloaded metadata and custom metadata generated by scripts will be saved. By default, saved metadata is global across all Collections in your library. This has the advantage that you only need to set metadata once if you have the same Track in different collections.

You can manage your library in the tree view on the left. 

# Collections and URLs
A Collection is a group of URLs which are processed using the same settings. URLs can be added in the library view.

Right-clicking a collection brings up a context menu with the following options:
- **Import URLs from bookmarks**: Brings up a dialog in which you can select the bookmarks file of your browser and the folder whose bookmarks to add to the collection. The following browsers are supported:
  - *Firefox*: Select the file `places.sqlite` in your Firefox profile folder. Sometimes, the file will be locked by Firefox if it is open when MusicSync wants to access it. In this case, you have to close Firefox and try again.

Right-clicking a URL brings up a context menu with the following options:
- **Exclude URL from sync**: If this is enabled, the URL data will not be compared to your local files when comparing and syncing in the "File sync" tab. This is useful if URL data like playlist entries don't change, e.g. when it is an album.
- **Concatenate tracks of playlist**: If this is enabled, the Tracks of playlist-type URLs will be concatenated into one file (in order of appearance). This is useful e.g. if you have a playlist of songs of an album, but you want to have the album saved as one audio file.

After selecting a collection, you can use the various tabs at the top. The first three are for managing files and downloads as well as selecting metadata and file tags, while the last tab .

# File sync tab
In this table, you see how many online **Tracks** are downloaded as **Files**, and you can decide what to do with your files.

Clicking the "Compare" button will download info of all URLs of this collection without downloading any actual files. A **sync status** is determined, and you can select a **sync action** for each track in the table before syncing the collection.

## Sync status and sync actions
Depending on the relationship between an online track and the corresponding local file, a **sync status** will be determined before syncing. This is especially useful for playlists whose contents can change in many ways (tracks added, removed by you, removed by the site etc.) which should all be handled differently. Possible values for the sync status are
- **Track added to URL**: Track is present online, but was not present in the previous sync.
- **Track not downloaded**: Track is present online, was also present in previous sync, but a corresponding File does not exist.
- **Track removed from URL**: Track is not present online, but was present in the previous sync.
- **File only exists locally**: The File is not marked as permanently downloaded and does not correspond to a Track found online.
- **File permanently downloaded**: The file is marked as permanently downloaded (and its corresponding Track might or might not exist anymore).
- **File downloaded**: Track is present online and the corresponding File exists.

Each sync status can lead to different **sync actions**. Possible sync actions are
- **Download**: Download the File.
- **Delete**: Delete the File.
- **Do nothing**: Don't delete or download a File and don't change the configuration.
- **Mark as permanently downloaded**: Don't delete the File, and mark it as permanently downloaded. This means the File's sync status won't be "Track not downloaded" or "Track removed from URL" in the future, but simply "File permanently downloaded" and can thus be distinguished from other removed tracks during future syncs.
- **Mark as not permanently downloaded**: Mark the File as not permanently downloaded (but don't delete the File).
- **Redownload metadata**: Download metadata again, but don't download the actual File again.
- **Decide individually**: You have to pick an action in each case. Syncing can only start when none of the selected actions are "Decide individually".

Not every sync status can lead to every sync action.

Clicking the "Sync" button will execute all selected sync actions, i.e. downloading files, deleting files etc. Metadata suggestions can then be selected and applied in the ["Metadata" tab](#metadata-tab).

# Metadata tab

# File tags tab

# Collection settings tab
The following settings are available:

## File output
- **Folder path**: The base folder where all tracks in this collection will be saved.
- **Filename format**: Base format for downloaded files using [yt-dlp's output template](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp?tab=readme-ov-file#output-template) syntax. For advanced renaming using local metadata, see [TODO]. Default: `%(extractor)s_%(playlist_id&{}_|)s%(playlist_index&{}_|)s%(id)s.%(ext)s` (name of extractor/site (e.g. `youtube`), playlist id and index for playlist-type URLs, id and extension)
- **File extension**: The file extension your downloaded files will have. If you want to download videos, you have to enter a video extension. Default: best audio format returned by yt-dlp.
- **Exclude these yt-dlp fields from the metadata table**: yt-dlp's info dicts contain data that is not relevant metadata or too big to be saved in the metadata table. [These](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/blob/master/yt_dlp/extractor/common.py#L124-L487) are all fields that info-dict can contain, but certain pages also set additional fields. In this setting you can provide a comma-separated list of fields which are not saved in the metadata table. They are still saved temporarily so that they can be accessed in metadata selection right after downloading, but are deleted when MusicSync is closed. To (temporarily) access these fields in the future, you can just redownload the metadata from the File sync tab.
- **Additional yt-dlp command-line options**: Additional command-line options that will be passed to yt-dlp before downloading. Note that these options overwrite options set by MusicSync (e.g. the filename format setting above), so be careful what you enter here. 

## URL Settings defaults
These are the settings newly added Collection URLs will be initialized with. Changing these settings does not affect present URLs.
- **URL name format**: Name of URLs using [yt-dlp's output-template](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp?tab=readme-ov-file#output-template) syntax. Default: `%(title)s`
- **Save playlist-type URLs in subfolders**: For playlist-type URLs, create a subfolder in the **Folder path** specified above and save all playlist entries there. The subfolder will be named after the URL name set through the **URL name format**.
- **Automatically exclude URLs after first download**: If a URL is excluded, its tracks will not be compared with your local files when syncing. Can be useful for playlists whose contents don't change and don't have to be synced after the first download, e.g. albums.
- **Automatically concatenate tracks of playlist-type URLs**: For playlist-type URLs, concatenate its entries into one file (in order of appearance).

## Bookmark Sync
By enabling bookmark sync, the URLs of this collection will be synced with the bookmarks of the specified bookmark folder in your browser. When syncing, editing URLs from the GUI is not possible. Before syncing, MusicSync looks for the bookmark folder in the browser's database, adding all new URLs to the collection and removing all deleted URLs. If bookmark sync is enabled, no URLs can be manually added to or removed from the collection.
- **Change folder**: Brings up the bookmark import dialog where you can select the folder this collection should be synced to.
- **Stop syncing**: Your Collection URLs will not be changed, but they won't be synced to the bookmark folder anymore.
- **Use the bookmark title as URL name**: If enabled, URLs will be named after the title of their bookmark. If disabled, they get their name from the **URL name format** setting.
- **Delete files for URLs removed from bookmarks**: If a URL is removed from the synced bookmark folder, it will also be removed from the Collection, but by default its files won't be deleted. By enabling this setting, such files will be deleted without any further prompt.

## Default sync actions
Here, you can select the sync action that will be the pre-set value of the combobox in the [file sync table](#file-sync-tab), depending on the determined sync status.


# Scripting tab
MusicSync features a scripting language, which is a based off of the [MusicBrainz Picard scripting language](https://picard-docs.musicbrainz.org/en/extending/scripting.html) and [yt-dlp output template](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#output-template) queries.

You can define scripts to generate metadata suggestions, file tags and file names and to manipulate files. Additionally, scripts can be used to manipulate the metadata yt-dlp extracts (also called "info dict") at different times during the extraction/download process. yt-dlp provides post-processors for this purpose; the [documentation](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/blob/b8058cdf378cbbf60669b665dea146fb7dc90117/README.md?plain=1#L1091-L1110) of the `when` argument of the `--use-postprocessor` option explains the possible times at which scripts can intervene. Each script type is explained in detail in the [Script types](#script-types) section.

In the list on the left, you can add and remove scripts. Upon selecting a script, you can edit its type, settings and the script text on the right. 

The scripts you add are global, meaning they are available in every collection, and settings for a script are the same for each collection. However, you can enable or disable scripts for each collection individually by clicking on the checkbox next to the script name while the collection you want to enable/disable the script for is selected.

## Scripting language
Scripts consist of three base elements: Text/strings (e.g `text`), variable queries (e.g. `%(title)s`) and function calls (e.g. `$set(variable, 10)`). Evaluating a script means replacing variable queries with their respective values, and executing all functions. Functions can have side effects such as setting new variables, and always return a string (which can be empty). When evaluating the script, each function call is replaced with its return value.

Thus, the effect of a script can be achieved through
- only the side effects of function calls, as with file tagger scripts
- only the string the script evaluates to after processing all variable queries and function calls, as with file name scripts
- a combination of both side effects and the resulting string, as with metadata suggestion scripts

## Additional language features
MusicSync's scripting language has various additional features compared to Picard's.
- Everything after a `#` until the end of a line is considered a comment and is ignored. A literal `#` has to be escaped like `\#`.
- Text enclosed in double quotation marks (`"text"`) is parsed as raw text, i.e. no special characters (like `$`, `,`, `(`, `)`, and `\`) have to be escaped and whitespace is not stripped. A literal quotation mark always has to be escaped like `\"`
- Whitespace at the beginning and end of lines and function arguments is stripped. If you want to keep whitespace in these places, you have to enclose it in quotation marks

## Script variables
MusicSync's scripting language has a different syntax for accessing variables compared to Picard's. Instead of variables queries being enclosed in percent signs, they are formatted like in [yt-dlp's output template](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#output-template) (e.g. `%(name)s`), supporting all special formatting defined by yt-dlp. They are searched for in yt-dlp's info-dict for the corresponding video (instead of metadata from MusicBrainz like in Picard).

Additional features include:
- The `m` format type is supported to format a list of strings like a multi-value text in Picard, i.e. separated by a semicolon and a space (`; `). For example, if the list `tags` is `['tag1', 'tag2']`, then the variable query `%(tags)m` will result in the string `tag1; tag2`. This means that all variable queries used inside Picard's multi-value functions have to use this format type.
- Apart from to variable types being single-string (i.e. text) or multi-value (i.e. list of strings), they can also be lists of arbitrary type (list, dictionary) and dictionaries with string as keys and arbitrary types as values.
- Variable queries always return text. If the resulting type is different (e.g. list or dict), the value will be converted to a string using Python's `str()` function.

## Script functions
The syntax for script functions is the same as in Picard, i.e. a dollar sign, the function name, and the argument list separated by a comma (e.g. `$set(variable, 10)`).

Script functions always take strings as arguments and always return a string. If a function call would result in another type (e.g. accessing a list or dictionary variable with the `$get` function), it is converted to a string (using Python's `str()` function) before being returned.

Every function defined in Picard works in MusicSync too. See [Picard's functions documentation](https://picard-docs.musicbrainz.org/en/functions/list_by_type.html) for how to use these functions. See the respective sections below for removed, modified and added functions in MusicSync.

### Arguments interpreted as variable names
Most functions interpret their arguments as literal strings. However, there are functions that interpret certain arguments as a **variable name**. The function documentation specifies if arguments are interpreted as a variable name, and whether they are *always* interpreted as such or only *if requested*.

If a variable name argument is interpreted as such only *if requested*, then the argument is only interpreted as a variable name if it starts with an asterisk (`*`), otherwise it is interpreted as a literal string. If a variable name argument is *always* interpreted as such, no asterisk is necessary, but it may still be present. To pass a literal string that starts with an asterisk, you have to escape it like `\*`.

**Tip**: Escaping the asterisk is only necessary at the beginning of variable name arguments. If a function definition doesn't specify that an argument is evaluated as a variable name, there is no need to escape an asterisk at the beginning of the argument. 

Object traversal is supported like defined in [yt-dlp's output template](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#output-template) (only point 1 in that section). Only the part inside the parentheses must be present, in order for it not to be evaluated like a normal variable query. For example, to pass the first element of the list variable `tags` to a function, the variable name argument would be `tags.0`.

The difference between passing a variable query to a function (e.g. `%(tags.0)s`) and passing a variable name (e.g. `tags.0`) is that variable queries are evaluated (and thereby converted to a string) *before* being passed to the function, whereas variable names are processed *inside* the function. Thus, things like list manipulations are not possible if an argument is passed as a variable query, since the function only sees the evaluated variable query (i.e. a string), and has no access to the underlying object (e.g. a list that should be modified). However, if an argument is passed as a variable name, the function sees that name and can retrieve the underlying object by itself.

**Note**: A comma inside the traversal query has to be escaped like `\,` or enclosed in double quotation marks, in order to not be interpreted as the beginning of a new function argument

### Removed functions
The functions `$matchedtracks` and `$is_complete` are not present in MusicSync since they only make sense in the context of Picard.

### Modified functions
Some functions from Picard have been modified, e.g. to support variable name arguments or to support list and dict variables.

#### `$set(name,value)`
- Argument `value` can be interpreted as a variable name *if requested*.

#### `$copy(new,old)`
- Argument `old` is interpreted as a variable name.

#### `$copymerge(new,old[,duplicates])`
- Arguments `new` and `old` are interpreted as a variable name. 
- If `old` and `new` are both lists or both dicts, they will be merged as expected. If `new` is a list and `old` is a string, `old` will be appended to `new`. All other argument type combinations will result in an error. 
- For lists or list/string: If `duplicates` is set, then duplicates will not be removed from the result. 
- For dicts: If `duplicates` is set, values from `old` will overwrite those in `new` if a key is present in both dictionaries.

#### `$cleanmulti(name)`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name. 
- Removes all empty elements from the multi-value/list/dict variable in-place. If the variable is a dict, removes all elements with empty value. 
- Note that this function does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).

#### `$join(name,text[,separator=; ])`
- Argument `name` can be interpreted as a variable name *if requested*. 
- `name` has to be/evaluate to a multi-value literal like "A; B; C". 
- A different separator than "; " can be passed with the `separator` argument.

#### `$len(value)`
- Argument `value` can be interpreted as a variable name *if requested*. 
- Returns the length of `value`. If it is a string, the length is the number of characters. If it is a list or dict, the length is the number of elements.

### Additional functions
Some functions have been added, e.g. to support list and dict manipulations or to enable certain functionalities of MusicSync.

#### List/dict functions

#### `$setlist(name, value1, *args)`
- All arguments after `name` can be interpreted as variable names *if requested*.
- Sets the variable `name` to a list variable containing the values of all given other values.
- Multi-value variables are saved as lists.

#### `$setdict_text(name, value[, element_separator[, kv_separator]])`
- Sets the variable `name` to a dictionary variable with content `value`, using `kv_separator` (`=` by default) as the separator of keys and values, and `element_separator` (`;` by default) as the separator between elements

#### `$setdict_vars(name, key1, value1, *args)`
- Sets the variable `name` to a dictionary where `key1` (interpreted as a string) is mapped to `value1` (interpreted as a variable name *if requested*), `key2` to `value2`, etc. 
- An arbitrary amount of key-value pairs can be specified.

#### `$is_list(name)`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Returns `"1"` if the argument is a list/multi-value variable, otherwise an empty string.

#### `$is_dict(name)`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Returns `"1"` if the argument is a dict variable, otherwise an empty string.

#### `$sortlist(name[, new])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Sorts the elements of the list variable `name` in ascending order, saving the resulting object in the variable `new`. If `new` is not given, `name` is sorted in-place instead. Note that in-place sorting does not work if `name` uses list slicing.

#### `$uniquelist(name[, case_sensitive[, new]])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Removes duplicate elements in the list `name`, saving the resulting object in the variable `new`. If `new` is not given, `name` is modified in-place instead. Note that in-place modification does not work if `name` uses list slicing.
- By default, a case-insensitive comparison of the elements is performed. If the argument `case_sensitive` is not empty, a case-sensitive comparison is performed instead.
- Note: To perform case-insensitive comparison but write to a new variable, you have to leave `case_sensitive` empty like `$uniquelist(name,,new)`.

#### `$reverselist(name[, new])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Reverses the elements of the list variable `name`, saving the resulting object in the variable `new`. If `new` is not given, `name` is sorted in-place instead. Note that in-place sorting does not work if `name` uses list slicing.

#### `$maplist(name, code[, new])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name. 
- Iterates over each element in the multi-value/list/dict variable `name` and updates the value of the element to the value returned by `code`, saving the resulting object in the variable `new`. If `new` is not given, `name` is modified in-place instead. Note that in-place modification does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).
- For each loop, the element value is first stored in the variable `_loop_value` and the count is stored in the variable `_loop_count` (counting is done 1-based, as in picard's `$map`). For dictionaries, the element key is stored in the variable `_loop_key`. This allows the element or count value to be accessed within the `code` script.
- Empty elements are **not** automatically removed.

#### `$foreachlist(name, code[, new])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Iterates over each element in the multi-value/list/dict variable `name`, executing `code` during iteration. If `new` is given, the value returned by `code` in each iteration is saved in a list, which is then saved in `new`.
- For each loop, the element value is stored in the variable `_loop_value` and the count is stored in the variable `_loop_count` (counting is done 1-based, as in picard's `$foreach`). For dictionaries, the element key is stored in the variable `_loop_key`. This allows the element or count value to be accessed within the `code` script.

#### `$filter(name, code[, new])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Iterates over each element in the multi-value/list/dict variable `name`, executing `code` during iteration. If `code` evaluates to an empty string, the current element is removed from the variable, otherwise it is kept in the variable. The resulting object is saved the variable `new`. If `new` is not given, `name` is modified in-place instead. Note that in-place modification does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).
- For each loop, the element value is first stored in the variable `_loop_value` and the count is stored in the variable `_loop_count` (counting is done 1-based, as in picard's `$map`). For dictionaries, the element key is stored in the variable `_loop_key`. This allows the element or count value to be accessed within the `code` script.

#### `$clear(name)`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Clears the given list/dict variable in-place.
- Note that this function does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).

#### `$insert(name, key, value)`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name. Argument `value` can be interpreted as a variable name *if requested*.
- Inserts `value` into list/dict variable `name` at index/key `key`. If no index is passed for a list variable, the value is appended to the end.
- Note that this function modifies the variable in-place and does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).

#### `$extend(name, values)`
- Arguments `name` and `values` are interpreted as a variable name.
- Extends the variable `name` by appending the elements of `values` to the end if the variable is a list, or updating it with key-value pairs from `values` if the variable is a dict (equivalent to Python's `update` dict method). 
- Note that this function modifies the variable in-place and does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).

#### `$remove(name, value[, n=0])`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- If the variable `name` is a list, removes the first `n` occurrences of `value`. If `name` is a dict, remove the first `n` key-value pairs with a value of `value`. If `n` is 0, remove all occurrences (the default).
- Note that this function modifies the variable in-place and does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).

#### `$pop(name, key)`
- Argument `name` is interpreted as a variable name.
- Remove the value at index `key` or the key-value pair with a key of `key` in the list/dict variable `name`.
- Note that this function modifies the variable in-place and does not work if `name` uses list slicing or filtering of specific dict keys (i.e. `{key1,key2}`).

## Script types
The following script types are available:
- **Metadata suggestions**: Add a custom field to your metadata. For each downloaded video, the script generates suggestions for possible values of that field, out of which you can select in the "Metadata" tab
- **Tagging**: Add tags to files
- **Sync Action**: Select a sync action
- **File name**: Change the name of files
- **Pre-process** (`pre_process` in yt-dlp): After info extraction
- **After filter** (`after_filter` in yt-dlp): After video passes filter
- **Video** (`video` in yt-dlp): TODO
- **Before download** (`before_dl` in yt-dlp): 
- **After download** (`post_process` in yt-dlp):
- **After move** (`after_move` in yt-dlp):
- **End of playlist** (`playlist` in yt-dlp):

### Metadata suggestions
Scripts of this type can turn yt-dlp's metadata into suggestions for custom metadata fields, out of which you can select in the ["Metadata"](#metadata) tab.

Metadata template settings are:
- **Name**: The name of the field under which your selected metadata will be saved in your library's metadata table.
- **Timed**: Whether this field contains timed data such as chapters, subtitles or lyrics in LRC format. Timed fields will have a special editor in the "Metadata" tab.
- **Show format options**: If this is enabled, the suggestion box for this field will have additional format options next to it in the "Metadata" tab.
  - **Default for format option "Format as title"**: Whether the format option "Format as title" will be enabled by default. This format option will capitalize every word.
  - **Default for format option "Remove brackets"**: Whether the format option "Format as title" will be enabled by default. This format option removes every pair of brackets and text between them (like "(text)", "[text]" or "{text}").
- **Local metadata field**: By default, metadata is saved globally in the library's metadata table. However, some metadata like playlist information is not directly connected to the Track, as the same Track can appear in different playlists. Saving this data globally is not possible if the same Track appears multiple times in your library. Enabling this setting means that metadata for this field won't be saved in the metadata table, but in the Track itself.
- **Overwrite metadata table values**: By default, if the metadata table already has data for a field and a Track, that data is inserted as the first suggestion. If this wouldn't happen, the value in the table would always be overwritten by the script's first suggestion. This is usually not what you want because if you edit some metadata, you don't want the metadata you didn't edit to change (e.g. if you selected and saved a different suggestion previously). Enabling this setting prevents metadata table data from being inserted as the first suggestion, i.e. saving metadata always saves the first suggestion if nothing else is selected.
- **Script**: The script that transforms yt-dlp's metadata into suggestions for this metadata field. See the "Scripting" section for information about the scripting language.  
  Metadata suggestions scripts are evaluated as follows:
  - Every line that evaluates to a non-empty string becomes a suggestion (in order). Line breaks inside a suggestion can be written as `\n`. An empty suggestion can be written as the empty raw text `""`.
  - If a line starts with an asterisk (`*`) followed by a name of a list variable, the list is unpacked so that each element of that list becomes a suggestion (in order). Apart from simple variable names, the text after the asterisk can also be an **object traversal** query like in [yt-dlp's output template](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#output-template) (only point 1 in that section) to access lists nested in other objects. Only the part inside the parentheses must be present, in order for it not to be evaluated like a normal variable query. For example, if there is a dictionary variable called `my_dict` that contains a list at key `my_list`, the syntax to unpack that list into suggestions is `*my_dict.my_list`.

### File tags and operations
In this table, you can select the tags that should be added to downloaded files and their respective values. You can also execute various file operations via [file plugins](#file-plugins).

- **Name**: The name of the tag. Note that not every file format supports every tag name, so try to only select tag names from the drop-down list at the top, but your file format might not even support every one of these. If an unknown tag name is given, the data will be saved as a comment (if the file format supports comments), so your music player might not be able to recognize that tag. See the [table below](#supported-file-tags-depending-on-file-format) for an overview on supported file tags for various file formats.
- **Format**: [Format string](#formatting) to generate the tag from.

#### Supported file tags depending on file format
| Tag                  | ID3 (mp3, aiff, tta, wav) | QuickTime (mp4, m4a, m4b, mov, 3gp, 3g2, m4v) | Vorbis Comment (ogg, flac, opus, spx, ogv) |
|----------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| album                | TALB                      | ©alb                                          | album                                      |
| album_artist         | TPE2                      | aART                                          | albumartist                                |
| album_artist_sort    | TSO2                      | soaa                                          | albumartistsort                            |
| album_sort           | TSOA                      | soal                                          | albumsort                                  |
| arranger             | TPE4                      |                                               |                                            |
| artist               | TPE1                      | ©ART                                          | artist                                     |
| artist_sort          | TSOP                      | soar                                          | artistsort                                 |
| author               | TOLY                      |                                               |                                            |
| category             | TCAT                      | catg                                          |                                            |
| chapter              | CHAP                      |                                               |                                            |
| comment              | COMM                      | ©cmt, ©des                                    | description                                |
| composer             | TCOM                      | ©wrt, ©com                                    | composer                                   |
| composer_sort        | TSOC                      | soco                                          | composersort                               |
| copyright            | TCOP                      | ©cpy, cprt                                    | copyright                                  |
| creation_time        | TDEN                      |                                               |                                            |
| date                 | TDRC                      | ©day                                          | date                                       |
| description          | TDES                      | desc                                          |                                            |
| director             |                           | ©dir                                          | director                                   |
| disc                 | TPOS                      | disk                                          | discnumber                                 |
| discsubtitle         | TSST                      |                                               |                                            |
| encoded_by           | TENC                      |                                               | encodedby                                  |
| episode_id           |                           | tven                                          |                                            |
| episode_sort         |                           | tves                                          |                                            |
| episode_uid          |                           |                                               |                                            |
| genre                | TCON                      | ©gen                                          | genre                                      |
| grouping             | TIT1                      | ©grp                                          | _releasegroup                              |
| hd_video             |                           | hdvd                                          |                                            |
| is_compilation       | TCMP                      | cpil                                          | compilation                                |
| is_gapless           |                           | pgap                                          | gapless                                    |
| is_podcast           | PCST                      | pcst                                          | podcast                                    |
| isrc                 | TSRC                      |                                               |                                            |
| key                  |                           |                                               | key                                        |
| keywords             | TKWD                      | ©key, keyw                                    |                                            |
| language             | TLAN                      |                                               | language                                   |
| length               | TLEN                      |                                               | _length                                    |
| lyricist             | TEXT                      |                                               | lyricist                                   |
| lyrics               | SYLT/USLT                 | ©lyr                                          | lyrics                                     |
| media_type           | TMED                      | stik                                          | media                                      |
| mood                 | TMOO                      |                                               |                                            |
| movement             | MVNM                      | ©mvn                                          | movement                                   |
| movement_count       |                           | ©mvc                                          | movementtotal                              |
| movement_index       | MVIN                      | ©mvi                                          | movementnumber                             |
| network              |                           | tvnn                                          |                                            |
| originaldate         | TDOR                      |                                               |                                            |
| performer            | TPE3                      | ©con                                          | originalartist                             |
| performer:*          | TMCL                      |                                               |                                            |
| podcast_episode_guid |                           | egit                                          |                                            |
| podcast_url          |                           | purl                                          |                                            |
| produced             | TPRO                      |                                               |                                            |
| producer             |                           | ©prd                                          | producer                                   |
| publisher            | TPUB                      |                                               |                                            |
| rating               | POPM                      | rtng                                          | _rating                                    |
| season_number        |                           | tvsn                                          |                                            |
| show                 |                           | tvsh                                          | show                                       |
| show_work_movement   |                           | shwm                                          |                                            |
| show_sort            |                           | sosn                                          |                                            |
| subtitle             | TIT3                      | ©st3                                          | subtitle                                   |
| synopsis             |                           | ldes                                          |                                            |
| table_of_contents    | CTOC                      |                                               |                                            |
| TBPM                 | TBPM                      |                                               |                                            |
| tempo                | TBPM                      | tmpo                                          | bpm                                        |
| thumbnail            | APIC                      | covr                                          |                                            |
| time                 | TIME                      |                                               |                                            |
| TIT1                 | TIT1                      |                                               |                                            |
| TIT3                 | TIT3                      |                                               |                                            |
| title                | TIT2                      | ©nam                                          |                                            |
| title_sort           | TSOT                      | sonm                                          | titlesort                                  |
| TKEY                 | TKEY                      |                                               |                                            |
| track                | TRCK                      | ©trk, trkn                                    | tracknumber                                |
| URL                  | WPUB                      | ©url                                          |                                            |
| website              | WOAR                      |                                               |                                            |
| work                 |                           | ©wrk                                          | work                                       |
| year                 | TORY                      | ©day                                          | originalyear                               |
| location             |                           | ©xyz, loci                                    |                                            |

## Plugins
Plugins are files in the `plugins` folder. There are metadata plugins and file plugins:
- **Metadata plugins** can be requested in any formatting field (`%(name)s`) in [formatted settings](#formatting). They receive the metadata table row of the current track as well as information about the current collection.
- **File plugins** can be requested from a [tag name](#file-tags-and-operations). They receive the same info as metadata plugins, but can additionally modify the Track entry of the Collection URL, e.g. by changing the filename.

Plugin syntax is `[plugin_name]:[arg1];[arg2];...;[kwarg1_key]=[kwarg1_value];[kwarg2_key]=[kwarg2_value];...`. The colon has to be present even if no arguments are given.

### Built-in plugins
#### Metadata plugins
- `collection:[setting]`: Access collection settings
- `ext_lyrics:[query]`: Downloads lyrics from external sources (with the [syncedlyrics](https://pypi.org/project/syncedlyrics/) package) using the [format string](#formatting) `[query]` as the search term, and returns them as timed data.
- `concat_playlist_timed:[format]`: Generates timed data from the individual videos of playlist-type urls for which concatenation is enabled, using their start time in the concatenated video as time and the [format string](#formatting) `[format]` as the timed text.
- `tag:[name]`: Access the generated [tag](#file-tags-and-operations) with the specified name. Since tag generation happens after metadata suggestion generation, this plugin might not work for metadata suggestions.

#### File plugins
- `thumbnail:[name]`: The file at the path/URL that this tag is set to is embedded into the file as an image. mutagen's [PictureType](https://mutagen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/id3.html#mutagen.id3.PictureType) is used as possible values for `[name]`. If no name is set, the image will be embedded as `FRONT_COVER`.
- `cut:` If this tag is set to a timed metadata field, chapters with special names will be used to cut the file or add silence.

### Adding your own plugin
